# Computer Science Portfolio

## Code Review

Code reviews serve as an overview of a project's code and what it's progress is within the project, highlighting important details to change or update within the source code and output. Code reviews ensure consistency and compliance within the development cycle of a project and allows even higher standards to be met within a project. 

You can find the code review for my CS-300, CS-330, and CS-340 projects [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KkApOy1SuHQ).

## Professional Self-Assessment

Over the course of my near 4 year career within the Computer Science program of Southern New Hampshire University, I have gotten the assistance needed to shape and concentrate on my professional and personal goals and paths. The path I walked gave me the knowledge of creating projects with code and video game engines as well as the team structures and bonding needed within the structures to ensure the development flow is going smoothly. This ePortfolio showcases my ability to plan and develop industry and professional-standard code for various purposes such as terminal applications to full games working in engine. This ePortfolio showcases a few projects I've worked on enough to showcase my abilities in Software Engineering and Design, Algorithms and Data Structures, and Databases. 

The first artifact, My Old Living Room, displays my knowledge with software design and engineering, especially with working on Open GL. It is a full 3D space environment that runs entirely on code to create visuals and set pieces with mine being of my old living room back in 2024. This focuses on my ability to create 3D environments and work around Open GL to create environments and applications. The second project deals with a data structure with creating a course planner within a terminal, being created in C++. The course planner allows a user to gain access to information to various courses within SNHU as well as edit, add, and delete any courses within the data structure, allowing formation of schedules and plans for the user. The third artifact, Animal Shelter, is a server database that was created with SQL and C++ that allows information of pets to be inputed onto a database table that can be edited by anyone who has access to the table, reserved for people of a vet or adoption center. The fourth project, the Metroidvania prototype, is a prototype created within 6 weeks with a 5 man developer team in Unreal Engine 5, using blueprints as the main code to create a prototype for a game if it were to be continued into production.

Due to working on these categories and topics, I have gained crucial knowledge within them as well as gaining skills and critial knowledge in other topics such as communicating with stakeholders and security. Over the course of the Computer Science program within SNHU as well as beyond the university, I've worked on various projects and assignments that involved working in teams and creating secure projects for various uses. These experiences gave me insight on what to expect with shareholders and security problems and risks. Another class I had that I didn't showcase in this portfolio had me working on a website that needs encryption during development, giving me tips and skills on what is needed to keep a project, big or small, safe and secure for anyone to use. With development in a team, the Metroidvania prototype wasn't the only instance of gaining experience and learning the best approaches to effeciency within a team, but a first of many experiences. Various courses like Software Development Lifecycle and positions I held at Walmart and other jobs before it has given me various different team and group formations to work with and see how they function such as Waterfall and Agile workflows for digital development of applications and video games and positions within departments of Walmart, having associates, coaches, and team leads all working their specific roles to ensure the department is up to speed for the various demands of shareholders and customers. 

## Project 1: Software Engineering and Design (My Old Living Room in Open GL)

This first artifact within my portfolio is an OpenGL source application, creating a 3D space environment of what was my old living room in 2024, being a fully 3D space that the viewer can explore and roam, taking in the tv, birdhouse, or even relaxing on the chair right below the spawn of the camera. This artifact showcases my abilities to work with multiple tools to create desired outcomes within code alone and achieve any necessary goals or deadlines with them as well as showcasing my abilities with sources like Open GL and coding languages like C++, giving knowledgeable prowess within the project alone. The original code was messed up due to Github not wanting to upload the entire project, only allowing me to upload a chunk of the project. The other changes include adding walls into the environment, adding improvements to the various decorations to ensure they are proportionate, and adding in lighting to set a better mood of the space. 

The artifact's design, report, and code can be found [here](https://github.com/Blitzkidd/Computer-Science-Portfolio/tree/CS-330).

## Project 2: Algorithms and Data Structures (Course Planner)

This second artifact is an application within a terminal and utilizing C++ allows a user to craft a course planner and add in, edit, or delete details of any course within the database. This creates a useful tool for any college student within SNHU to plan out their days accordingly and keep up to date on information they will need. This project was also created using C++, showing further prowess within the language as well as showcasing my abilities with classes within the language, stringing together various files to get an application running properly. The original course planner's code was fractured due to missing some code, having me clean up and recreate some aspects of the code to ensure that the planner functions properly. The original also had some issues with inputs being messed up and information not always showing. 

The artifact's design, report, and code can be found [here](https://github.com/Blitzkidd/Computer-Science-Portfolio/tree/CS-300).

## Project 3: Databases (Animal Shelter)

This third artifact is a database project remade from python and jupyter notebook to SQL and C++ to be a database for various information of animals within a shelter. This allows any shelter to have a small database to track various pets and their status like their sex, age, name, etc. The third artifact mainly uses SQL and a C++ file, showing my abilities to create SQL databases for any kinds of use and needs if the times arrive for them to be needed. Being able to create an editable digital database for any particular reason is a greate skill to possess as information will always be update to data and accessible. The original, as stated previously, was created within python and jupyter, being a whole mess to even get running. I went in and recreated the entire database with SQL and C++ to allow it to be edited and created with easier code, making it much cleaner to use and manage. 

The artifact's design, report, and code can be found [here](https://github.com/Blitzkidd/Computer-Science-Portfolio/tree/CS-340).

## Project 4: Game Design (Metroidvania Prototype)

This fourth artifact was one I wanted to include on this portfolio as it demonstrates my ability to work with a team on various projects. During this Metroidvania prototype that took around 6 weeks to develop, I was the level designer and coder, ensuring the environments and interactions all worked properly as well as created. This artifact showcases my prowess with blueprints, Unreal Engine 5, and my ability to work with a team, collaborating and having weaknesses and strengths be used to all of our advantage to create a product that is sure to meet the requirements and deadline of any certain goal. 

The artifact's design, report, and code can be found [here](https://github.com/EHaeffner/GAM-305---UrbanFantasy).
